So hopefully all of you got a chance
to poke around a little bit with
the clor80API.
Gonna switch gears a little bit,
but we're gonna circle back
to doing some signing and
verification to talk about Merkle DAGs.
So, you've probably, all of you,
have already used Merkel DAGs.
You just haven't known it because Merkle
DAGs are the basic data structure that
get uses in other decentralized
version control systems.
So how a Merkel DAG works is
whenever you have some content, you
take the hash of that content and the hash
is sort of like the key for the content.
So we did this a bit earlier with
content addressable blob store, but
what makes it a DAG,
directed acyclic graph,
is that when we wanna refer to other
documents, we do that by their hash.
And we put those hashes
that we wanna use to refer
to other documents inside of
the document that we're hashing, itself.
When we do this, it means that you can
sort of establish this chain of custody.
So if anyone ever tampers with any
one of those documents, the hash for
that document will change, but so
will the hash of every other document.
So you get this sort of cascading
property that's very useful for
building secure data structures,
for building verifiable structures.
So that's gonna save you a lot of
problems in terms of data integrity and
also it means that you can get content
from untrusted peers on a network.
It's a very handy property
on the public Internet,
especially if you're building
a peer-to-peer system, for example.
So some other examples of Merkle DAGs in
the real world is a tool called ipfs.
This is similar to BitTorrent, but
it uses hashes to sort of build
up these richer data structures.
There's also, I mentioned it already,
secure scuttlebutt.
This is a social database that
also uses Merkel DAGs to kind of build
tools like a peer-to-peer social network,
a peer-to-peer GitHub replacement.
It's a very useful general purpose
data model using Merkle DAGs and
especially if you add
signing into the mix.
So if you have a signed Merkle DAG, you
can do a lot of things that, normally you
would have to write a bunch of software to
verify these properties, but if you just
are kind of clever about how you structure
your data, with hashing and signatures,
you get a lot of these properties just for
free, which is very cool, I think.
Yes.
So
the kind of network where you get
these sorts of signed documents,
like where you can get them Merkel DAG,
is sometimes called a gossip network.
Gossip networks are really cool because
all of the peers don't have to be
online at the same time.
So you don't need to build complicated
things like global consensus.
You can just make kind of these
point-to-point connections like maybe,
riding my bicycle through town and
I've got a little Raspberry Pi in my
backpack that's configured to hop on
the WiFi when it sees it but the WiFi is
not hooked up to the public Internet.
And so I can sync my data as I'm
riding around through town to whatever
the nearest node is and then be on my way
to the next village and do the same thing.
And now, both of those villages, if I
come back again, will have a consistent
copy of the data set, even though they're
not necessarily online except through
travelers with computing
devices on their person.
Anyways, that's just a fun example,
that people actually do.
So part of my contracting work
has been building a system
like this using USB drives to
build a gossip network for
offline communities in
the Amazon Rainforest, mostly.
Just to make maps.
Very fun project.